PART 3:

Q: What do you imagine a user might expect about the privacy of their personal data on the site?
Does the expectation of privacy vary across different sections or types of data on the site?

A: Whenever a user signs up for these services there are always terms and agreements to read before
creating an account. Not everyone takes the time to read these policies but just automatically can
assume that personal data is being collected one way or the other. It’s not a coincidence that you
Venmo someone for ice cream and then you get ads on Instagram for ice cream parlors in your area. 
We are all subconsciously sharing our data even with the most “trustworthy” companies. In the case
of Venmo, you can see the monetary value of the transaction between yourself and another user, but
you can not see the value of transactions you are not a part of. However, if the post has been made
public or made visible to “friends only”, one can see the description and assume the range of how
much was deposited given the context. Unless the Venmo has been made private, everyone who has an
account with this service has access to how you are spending your money.


Q: Identify one vulnerable user group for whom data scientists scraping data should exercise more caution.

A: Data scientists should exercise caution in scraping data from the elderly. Technology changes so fast
and it changes everyday. Even with this current generation of youth, when we are old, we won’t be as
capable to keep up with the technological advances as fast as we could at our current age. Unfortunately,
it is very common for the elderly to be misled in the wrong direction and most of the time they are taken
advantage of for their lack of knowledge and understanding. They might not know the most up to date practices
for protecting their own privacy which is why we should be protecting their data with the utmost care. 


Q: Describe one project or use case where scraping data from this site could cause harm. Describe one project
or use case where scraping data from this site could be beneficial.

A: Harm: A potential harmful use of scraping data from Venmo could be extracting the data from the public posts
without the consent of the users. This is a breach of privacy that could reveal the sensitive information of
others. This is also detrimental in the case where a transaction was meant to be private but was accidentally
made public and if our web scraping happened to be made at this time sensitive point, then the user might think
that their error was corrected when in reality, it is saved elsewhere where we only have access to.

Beneficial: It could be beneficial to scrape data from Venmo if a user is trying to collect information for their
financial reports. For example if a user wants to do an analysis on their spending habits, it might be beneficial
to pull data from Venmo and then filter by key description words to identify different categories.


Q: What types of data on the site should data scientists be especially cautious about collecting? If any, what
types of data on the site should not be scraped by data scientists?

A: Data scientists should be cautious about collecting the usernames of these Venmo transactions. This is personal
information that should not be shared with and the username of a person should have no effect on the collection of
their data. Instead, a data scientist should assign id values to protect the privacy of the user. It can, and should,
collect information about the time and dates of these transactions. It could be a cool analysis to see what days of
the week, what times, etc. have the most/least uses for the app.


Q: Let’s think about missing data for a second. It’s important to remember that the scraped data isn’t all encompassing.
View this artwork by Mimi Onuha: here. What kind of data may be difficult to get access to? Give one example. Why do you
think that is? What is the impact of this missing or inaccessible data?

A: Given that the monetary value of transactions not involving oneself is hidden to other users, it will be difficult to 
scrape this information since we do not have access to this information given Venmo’s privacy regulations. In the example
I gave earlier about wanting to run an analysis on what dates/times are the most popular to use Venmo, it could have been
interesting to see by how much the transaction value ranges on that given information. We could extract so much information
by scraping the data for Venmo on holidays like Christmas or Hanukkah (when people are sending money as gifts), but we could
do further investigation if we had access to how much money was being transferred. For example, a data scientist could analyze
how much money was transferred on Christmas versus any normal/non-holiday day of the year. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 4:

Q: The concept of a “data economy” comes with the perspective that data is a form of economic resource and capital. To what,
if any, standards of social responsibility should we hold researchers, companies, and other entities that use data to turn a
profit? What price would you put on your own personal data, if any? Justify your opinion and describe which opinions you agree
or disagree with in the article.

A: As it was stated multiple times in the article, nothing in life is free- even if we think it is. Our world relies on making
a profit no matter what it takes. The way different companies use “privacy” is not followed by its formal definition. Personal
data is being used so that others make a profit. Companies want to collect data so that in the end, they are the ones who are
winning- and we are the ones falling for the trap. My own personal data is priceless, but like everyone else, I am blindly
allowing my information to be stored and sold without thinking about the consequences of my actions. I am google searching for
different recipes so I shouldn’t be surprised when I get ads for restaurants in my area serving that dish because these are 
targeted for me. 

The article states “we are calling out the tech industry but really, it is showing us our system”. It is true- it is showing
what our system values as a whole, but we shouldn’t deflect from the source of the problem and that circles back to the tech
industry. Our modern world relies on the ever changing technology to keep our society functioning. It is the responsibility of 
engineers to ensure that their products are socially responsible but the responsibility lies equally with researchers and 
companies to ensure that the data they are extracting is ethical- it’s that extra step in between to check that makes all the 
difference. However, the article emphasizes one’s digital footstep. Nowadays, it's almost impossible to not leave a trail behind. 
Nothing on the internet is private. One way or another, our digital footprint circles back to us. 





